I'd like to talk about the weather
and I mean all of it the hots the wets
the whooshes the burbs
and of course the flashy flashy boom
booms predicting the weather accurately
is a multi-billion dollar industry that
can affect businesses and literally save
lives so there is a lot of pressure on
weather forecasters which might explain
why they sometimes snap I want you guys
to say wow that's great news it's gonna
be 60 on Friday well I mean want me to
do put so many every day next time
there's some wind here's some
temperature 20s feels like 19 or feels
like 70 I don't know 47 partly cloudy
Southwest breeze 10 to 15 here's a 60 I
don't know if that's good enough for you
guys get excited maybe I'll disappoint
you with the 7-day here a few minutes
[Applause]
obviously which all local news were
still livid like that a gas station got
robbed that's not my fault in
traffic there should be no delays in
getting you home to your sad lives and
your dumpy ugly kids and in sports any
athlete on any team could your
spouse if they wanted to that's the news
suck on this one sit on that one look
maybe maybe you don't get your weather
from local news maybe use an app like
the one that came with your phone or
dark sky or Weather Underground all from
places like the Weather Channel or
AccuWeather if you're a New Yorker you
might even get your weather from New
York ones Twitter account and if you
don't you absolutely should because
their actual forecast for the first of
this month was October got off to a warm
start today enjoy the month it's the
last good one for NYC until May the rest
of trash
excellent wherever you get your weather
from if you live in the u.s. your
forecast would not exist without the
National Weather Service it's a subset
of its parent agency NOAA and it's an
absolutely incredible government service
generating essential information but
unfortunately it may be under serious
threat
so tonight much like two colleagues in
an elevator let's talk about the weather
and and let's start with the fact the
National Weather Service harvests a huge
amount of data every day and all the
other private Weather Service's you can
possibly think of are dependent on that
data to make their own predictions
here's one National Weather Service
meteorologists pointing exactly that out
all the forecast warnings and data
that's available from the National
Weather Service is there free of charge
to anyone even though you don't know our
names or see our faces most of the time
those products and services that you see
almost every day likely originated from
the National Weather Service office yeah
and he's absolutely right think of it
like this National Weather Service data
is to a weather forecast
what fresh Wolverine meat is to Hormel
chili you can't make one without the
other it's the dominant ingredient bear
the National Weather Service also works
in tandem with organizations all over
the world through the World
Meteorological Organization where
countries share essential weather data
on a free and unrestricted basis this
actually works out very well for the US
we receive three times more data back
from our partners than we give them and
we've really benefited from that in the
past for instance in 2012 the US model
initially had hurricane sandy heading
out to the ocean while the European
model showed it making a sharp left turn
and hitting the east coast which it did
of course it did and because we had that
early warning countless lives were saved
so virtually the entire world
participates in a weather observation
system that most people have never heard
of and that private companies benefit
greatly from which is not to say the
companies don't add value here because
they definitely do among other things
when a local news station subscribes to
say a key weather it gets there
state-of-the-art graphics packages
that's something that's been a big part
of their brand since at least the
whatever you need AccuWeather has it
[Music]
every day you can select from thousands
of award-winning graphics satellite and
radar images graphics that are at the
cutting edge of design and accuracy
you'll know about the worst one like
this nasty Christmas Eve in Bradford
Pennsylvania or this blizzard in
lonetree Wyoming trivia questions can
help hold your audience with tantalizing
facts when the weather is in the news
you can be on top of it with special
graphics like this one of trinova whoa
functionable graphic Accuweather that
looks like a screenshot from the world's
saddest Nintendo game where the levels
you progress through a stages one two
three and four cancer and and to this
day the private sector is on the cutting
edge of dressing up weather data one of
a key weathers main competitors The
Weather Channel now regularly produces
spectacular and pointless graphics to
dramatize severe weather and that might
break through the ice then we start to
run into trouble you need that to
support the weight of a man there can be
extensive power
holy let's all just be thankful
that those graphics that advanced were
not around during Chernobyl but the
companies clearly don't just provide
graphics some have their own data
collection systems and can use them to
augment the weather service data and
narrowly tailor forecasts for specific
clients for example they could tell a
trucking company what Rose will be
safest to drive on ahead of winter
storms and just listen to Joel Myers
founder and CEO of AccuWeather as he
provides another particularly vivid
example Eddie Vedder was doing a concert
in Chicago
Live Nation uses our service we gave
them a warning he said we just heard
from AccuWeather we need to clear the
field they did 20 minutes later with
everybody out of harm's way
a severe lightning storm hit it struck
the stage actually right where you have
been standing Wow
he's claiming a key Weber saved Eddie
Vedder's life I guess that's what Eddie
was talking about when he famously said
and I quote
burn out you darling
what my voice actually makes a pretty
good case therefore the value of private
where the company's making sure Eddie
better doesn't get struck by lightning
is simply not something the National
Weather Service has the bandwidth to do
so the relationship between the public
and the private sector is mutually
beneficial in fact sometimes the weather
service even buys data from private
companies but there can be tensions
because the private sector is by its
nature inclined to try and grab
attention like when AccuWeather rolled
out its groundbreaking 45 day forecast
despite the fact most experts agree any
forecasts beyond seven to ten days is
unreliable and one even called it a joke
and it gets worse for instance it is the
National Weather Service that names
tropical storms and they named them to
signal that they are important if a
storm gets a name like Sandy or Irene
then you know you've got to pay
attention now they don't name winter
storms because winter storms urban flow
much more so naming them could inflate
their importance or eventually cheapen
naming storms altogether which is why it
bugged the out of The Weather
Service when The Weather Channel
suddenly started doing this this season
The Weather Channel is naming major
winter storms the list includes names
like Athena Draco and Magnus and yes
look those names rule obviously
I'm not disputing that but the point is
naming them was a bad idea
especially if as they did you call one
Janis without say considering what would
happen if a forecaster stood in front of
one of those letters because you've got
a problem on your hands W hey hey honey
the news is saying a meanness is getting
bigger and is going to be dumping all
over us for the next three days
but but a bigger source of friction has
been the private-sector sense that they
might be better off if the National
Weather Service did slightly less one
notable skirmish came 15 years ago after
the National Weather Service made its
website more user-friendly and Joel
Meyers brother Barry Meyers who was then
the company's EVP expressed his serious
frustration the National Weather Service
recently decided to more aggressively
share its data directly with taxpayers
but not everyone is in favor of it's
more accessible website we work very
hard every day competing with other
companies and we also have to compete
with the government hold on
do you though do you have to compete or
is the government what makes your
industry possible in the first place
because without their data every
Accuweather Forecast would just be
if I know
in fact that same year a key weather
supported a bill in Congress that could
have prevented the Weather Service from
doing anything a private company does
like providing daily forecasts or
putting content on its website now the
bill failed which is good because what
you do not want is a paywall system of
weather we're only paying customers can
find out if they're about to drive into
a tornado and I'm not even making up
that worst case scenario it's basically
AccuWeather sales pitch during that same
interview where Joel Meyers claimed that
he'd saved Eddie Vedder's life he shared
an anecdote about a client a railroad
company that pays a key whether to give
it reports about anything affecting its
trains now this is subtle but see if you
can pick up on a problem here Union
Pacific we told them that a tornado was
heading to a spot two trains stopped two
miles apart they watched the tornado go
between them unfortunately it went into
a town that didn't have our servers and
a couple dozen people were killed but
the railroads did not lose anything the
did you just say
that is a weird focus on the safety of a
railroad over human life that's a man
who read Anna Karenina and came away
thinking it's a story about a woman who
Mowgli inconvenienced a train now now
what people did die in that tornado it
was actually an example of the warning
system working well because while yes
AccuWeather did inform their client
Union Pacific the National Weather
Service also warned the town just a few
minutes later giving residents their
time to seek shelter but what Myers is
doing there is marketing AccuWeather
as indispensable for Public Safety which
thanks to the current strength of the
National Weather Service it isn't freely
shared information has tremendous
potentially life-saving value although
at times his brother Barry has argued
otherwise remember how our partners in
Europe were able to help us prepare for
hurricane sandy just listen to how he
described that of special focus during
superstorm sandy was the ECMWF so-called
European model which did a better job at
some points in the storm tract in US
models did relying on other countries
for better weather models places America
in a weak and subservient position
weight cooperation makes America weak
and subservient that is a viewpoint that
would make for a tantalizing bit of a
key weather trivia who lost World War 2
Britain for accepting help
so it is just crucial that whoever runs
the National Weather Service is someone
who a sees the obvious benefit of
international cooperation and B can
stand up to the potential pressures of
the private sector and particularly Joel
and Barry Myers and at this point you
can probably guess what's coming
president Trump nominating the
AccuWeather CEO he's Barry Meyers and
president Trump wants him to be the
Undersecretary of the National Weather
Service is an interesting nomination yes
it is in fact you can even say it's
incredibly predictable because
everything Trump does is designed to
destroy government from the inside the
National Weather Service is a terrible
government agency to put in the hands of
a businessman and while Myers has
stepped down from a key where that and
divested his stake in the company it is
still very much a family business with
his son-in-law and wife being employed
there in recent years and his two
brothers still serving as CEO and co o
of the company and yet during his
confirmation hearing Mya's insisted that
wouldn't be a problem I've made it clear
to my brothers in fact jokingly I I
explained to them that we may see each
other at Thanksgiving dinner and we can
talk about football and family things
but we cannot talk about Noah really
really you won't talk about the thing
that could vastly enrich the family
business at Thanksgiving or conveniently
Thanksgiving is now exactly 45 days away
so allow me to make a 45 day forecast
aside from the obvious would Barry
Meyers want this job if you're thinking
well maybe he's just a weather nerd
who's always wanted to be at the source
of all the information he's not that a
few years ago he told the Wall Street
Journal I'm not a meteorologist and that
as a young man I knew meteorology was
not what I wanted to do it's also not
like he's hoping to parlay this job into
a future lobbying gig on K Street he's a
76 year old multi-millionaire so he has
no passion for the subject matter and
his family company is as he himself has
argued a direct competitor to the agency
he's been tapped to run and if that
weren't disqualifying enough there is
one more concern hanging over his
nomination
the Labor Department investigation into
AccuWeather found multiple sexual
harassment claims were ignored by
executives it says women who complained
feared retaliation right the
investigation said the company had a
severe and pervasive harassment problem
and while the company denies the
allegations they also chose not to fight
them and the crazy thing here is Mya's
has been Trump's nominee for two years
now but he hasn't been in the job
because the Senate has been sitting on
his confirmation trunks already had to
resubmit his nomination twice and if
Myers isn't confirmed by the end of this
year he'll have to do it again which why
why not find another guy the fact that
for that to happen Trump would have to
do stuff know stuff and think workplace
harassment is a bad thing and none of us
should be holding our breath on that
besides it has been easy for Trump to
stick by Myers because hardly anyone has
been paying attention to this issue
which is understandable but we really
should be and I'm gonna actually know a
way to help here because what better way
to illustrate an abstract threat the by
learning from the company that since the
80s has perfected turning dry
information into state-of-the-art
entertainment so please if you will come
with me
hi there I would like to issue a very
important warning for the DC area
according to our patented thousand day
forecast model superstore Barry is going
to cause significant harm to the
National Weather Service as you see it
originated over here at AccuWeather
headquarters and it's been gravitating
towards NOAA for nearly two years now if
it makes landfall our model suggests
there could be significant damage I'm
talking mass reindeer suicide sliding
Santa off a roof damage that's a lot
because we do not want the whole country
to be like Eddie Vetter in a position
where unless we pay a key whether the
next thing you know back
weird
[Applause]
[Music]
what I'm saying is super strong berry
hitting the National Weather Service
could cause a massive data freeze while
unfortunately over at AccuWeather
there's going to be around a 95% chance
of him making it rain
[Applause]